[DOC] User journeys through Tempo (#3716)
grafana/tempo: docs/sources/tempo/introduction/_index.md

---
aliases:
  - /docs/tempo/getting-started/traces
  - /docs/tempo/traces
description: "What are traces? Learn about traces and how you can use them."
keywords:
  - Grafana
  - traces
  - tracing
title: Introduction
weight: 120
---

# Introduction

A trace represents the whole journey of a request or an action as it moves through all the nodes of a distributed system, especially containerized applications or microservices architectures.

> Traces let you profile and observe systems, making it easy to discover bottlenecks and interconnection issues.

Author: Good catch. We do need to be careful about using profiles because we have multiple contexts.

Traces are composed of one or more spans.
A span is a unit of work within a trace that has a start time relative to the beginning of the trace, a duration and an operation name for the unit of work.
It usually has a reference to a parent span (unless it's the first span, the root span, in a trace).

> It frequently includes key/value attributes that are relevant to the span itself, for example the HTTP method used by the span, as well as other metadata such as the service name, sub-span events, or links to other spans.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It frequently includes key/value attributes that are relevant to the span itself, for example the HTTP method used in the request, as well as other metadata such as the service name, sub-span events, or links to other spans.
```

Probably a nit: a span does not use a HTTP method, it sounds a bit strange to me.
